---
layout: single
title:  "Super E100 Electric Scooter"
date:   2021-06-07 08:17:50 -0400
categories: project
---



What happens when you take a Razor E100 electric scooter, rip out everything but the red metal frame and the front wheel, and fill it with much higher-quality components?

You get this! 


The scooter in all its glory.

Battery stats: 36 A123 LiFePo4 cells (FS300001) in a 12S3P configuration, the maximum amount of cells you could feasibly put into the old battery compartment. The old setup had a 24 V lead-acid setup; this one I charge up to about 43 V. 

The hand-soldered battery pack.

I replaced the 100 W kick-start only DC motor with a Turnigy SK8 6374-130KV sensored BLDC motor running at about 1.8 kW.

My top speed is now a little over 20 mph; the stock configuration is 10 mph.

The throttle is now a continuous thumb-throttle, rather than an on/off twist-switch.

The ignition is a classy key-switch installed in the right handlebar.

The charger is a little less classy, but amusing nonetheless:

Thankfully, nothing burned down from using this charger.

This is a terrifying butchering of a 90W Dell laptop power supply fed into a generic boost converter I found on Amazon that has nice current and voltage setting for CC/CV. The leads from the (20 V) laptop supply are also fed in parallel to a tiny cheap buck converter to step down to 7 V to power a fan because it turns out that the tiny passive heatsink that the boost converter came with is not nearly enough to handle the heat generated by the converter. A XT60 connector completes the charging apparatus and connects directly to the battery pack leads.



`YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP`

Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works.

Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets:

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
